Let's add an Angular service
and again, I do assume that you know what Angular services are and why we would use them.
We can generate it with the Ionic generate command again, if you hit enter,
you'll see that in there you can select a service,
of course you can also type Ionic generate service and then the name or the path of the service
but for now I'll go with the dropdown.
So now I'm asked for the name or path of the service
and I want to create a recipes service,
so I'll create it in the recipes folder and then the name of the service will also be recipes.
So recipes/recipes
it is
and this gives me a new recipes service in the recipes folder.
Now this automatically gets @injectable provided in route which ensures that this is provided
application-wide, we can use the same instance of the service in any component, any page of the entire
app
and of course here it's important that we use the same instance, so that if our recipes data would change,
it is reflected in all components and not just in components using that specific service instance
and therefore, now this is our service.
I will now take my recipes I have set up in the recipes page and cut them from there and instead, add
them here to the recipes service.
Now having the recipes in here is of course nice but now we need them back in the recipes page,
right, now how do we do that?
Well it is a public property so we could just access it like this,
however I will turn it into a private property
so that we can't just access it like this and instead I'll add a method which I'll name getAllRecipes,
you can name it whoever you want and there, I will return
let's say a copy of that recipe array, so that if we then would edit the array returned by this method
inside of the component, we wouldn't edit the original array
and this is simply related to how arrays and objects work in Javascript and that they are reference
types and not primitives. Attached, you find an article and video where I dive a bit deeper into that
in case you're interested.
So here I'll create a copy with the spread operator by pointing at this recipes.
Now what this does is it pulls all the elements of this array out of it and then adds it to a new array
down there and then I return this new array which is a perfect copy of the old array, not of the objects
in the array but of the array itself at least. Now
I can also already add a getRecipe method which requires a recipeId as an argument and this will
return a single recipe for that ID.
So here, I want to return this recipes and then I can use the find method which is a default Javascript
method I can use on arrays and this method takes a function which will execute on every element in the
array and then if this function returns true, we basically tell find that this is the object we were
looking for and it will stop execution and not run find on any other element in the array and give us
back that element
it was running on instead. So the function I pass here gets the recipe as an input because again, it executes
this function on every element in the array
and this is an array of recipes,
so what we get in every function execution is a single recipe
and there, I want to return true if this is the recipe I'm looking for and false otherwise
and therefore here in this condition, I will compare the ID of the recipe I'm looking at with the recipeId
I got as an argument
and if these are equal, then I have the recipe I want the return and then I do return it.
Now here just as with the array, I will create a copy of that object by wrapping this whole call here
in curly braces and then I can use the spread operator here as well
and this will pull out all the properties of the return recipe object and add them into a new object.
So this is now the service we can use in the recipes page and the recipe detail page
and this is already Angular's state management in action.
It isn't very complex here but writing a similar logic in your vanilla Javascript app would already
be more complicated and it will become more complicated throughout the course where we will have more and
more complex state management.
So now the recipe service is what I want to use in my components and as you know, we can get access to
a service by injecting it into a component.
So here in the recipes page component, I want to inject the recipes service and for that, you need to
define the type here, recipes service and you need to import that from your recipe service file, by the
way in the recipe service,
you should also make sure you're importing that recipe model,
so let's add this, we can click the light bulb here to get help with that.
So the recipe model is required because we're referencing it here in the service but back to the page
now. In the page I'm now injecting the recipes service and I'm using that Typescript shortcut where I
automatically assign the argument I'm getting here to a private property of this entire class, so that
I can use the recipe service anywhere in the class and not just in the constructor. ngOnInit then
always is a great place for initialization work,
so here, I want to call recipe service getAllRecipes,
this returns an array of recipes and I want to store this in this component and therefore here, I will re-add
add my recipes array like this
but initially this is undefined and it will be set here.
So I will set recipes, this recipes,
so my local property here equal to the recipes returned by getAllRecipes.
Now what
all that gives us is that if I now save this, it will recompile and give us the exact same look as before
but now we'll also be able to tap into a single recipe on the recipe detail page.
Let's do that next.